Relationships can create a link between two tables in a unidirectional many to one relationship.
Many rows in the child table belong to one row in the parent table.
In this lesson, you will establish a many to one relationship between grade and students.
Before we continue, you will often hear the words parent and child in the context of relational databases.
In this case, the student table is the parent, and the grade table is going to be the child.
Why is that?
Because one student can have many grades.
That's all.
So here we have a table that stores grades on the right.
The grades table has a primary key column that provides a unique identity for every grade record.
But wait.
Where did this column come from?
We haven't set it up yet, but this is called a foreign key column.
The foreign key column associates every single grade record with a student.
Big word alert.
What is a foreign key?
A foreign key references the primary key of another table.
So the primary key column for the student table provides a unique identity for each student.
The primary key column for the grades table provides a unique identity for each grade.
The foreign key column of the grades table references.
The primary key column of the student table.
So each ID in the foreign key column is referencing a student.
These are the grades for Harry.
These are the grades for Ron.
These are the grades for Malfoy.
And these are the grades for her Mini.
So using this foreign key column, we've established a link between these two tables such that there
is a many to one relationship between many grades and one students.
Now, how do we do this using spring boot GPA?
Let's go through the process.
First, we need to ensure that many grades must be associated with one student.
Inside the great entity, we're going to define a student field, private student student as spring
GPA creates our grade table.
We need to tell it that there's going to be a many to one relationship at many to one.
So now spring GPA understands that many grades will be associated with one student and in a one direction
or many to one relationship.
The child table manages the foreign key.
So if you want to define a foreign key column that joins two separate tables, we're going to say join
column.
And the foreign key column of the grade table needs to reference the primary key column of the student
table.
In this case, the primary key column of the student is called ID.
So the referenced column name needs to be ID.
And now let's give our foreign key column a name.
So a name is equal to.
And because the foreign key column is going to be storing student IDs, we're going to call it student
ID.
All right.
I'm going to run my application.
I have to stop it in between recordings because my computer was really slowing down.
But I think we should be good now.
Okay.
Going back to my database.
Press run.
All right.
Here we can see the grade table has three columns.
The primary key column provides a unique identity to each grade.
Here you can see that the foreign key column is called Student ID, as we specified over here.
And the foreign key column references the primary key column of the student table ID.
The next step is to make a post request that submits a grade as well as the student that it's associated
to going back to Postman.
Go to the create grade request.
You can see that the request is already set up.
We're not dealing with courses yet so you can ignore this part of our path.
So back to the controller.
We're going to say great service, dot save grade.
Here.
We're passing in both the student ID and course ID path variables from our request, but in this lesson
we're only going to be making use of the student ID will make use of the course ID later.
Now I can go back and make a post request.
Our request to successful 201 created.
If I go back to my database and I'm going to query both tables.
The score is A-plus.
As we specified in the JSON in the primary key column, the grades ID is auto generated, but the foreign
key column doesn't have anything.
The foreign key column needs to reference the ID of the student who this grade belongs to.
We assigned this grade to Harry.
So here are the foreign key columns should have a value of one, but in this case the grade doesn't
belong to anybody.
And the existence of a grade that doesn't belong to anyone doesn't make any sense.
Every grade needs to be assigned to a student.
On that very same note, we need to specify in our relationship.
That the student is not optional.
So optional is equal to false.
A grade cannot exist without a student.
It just doesn't make any sense.
So right now, if I try submitting this same grade again.
It throws a big error.
Which is perfect.
Now, instead of saying optional equals false, some people like to say knowable equals false.
The difference is that optional equals false is a runtime instruction, whereas and it happens before
contacting the database, whereas this blocks the null value at the database layer.
From experience, it's common practice to block the null before contacting the database.
And inside of our method, inside of save grade.
Right before we save the grade, we need to assign it to a student.
So here we're getting the ID of the student to this grade belongs to, we'll say student student.
And we're going to use the path variable to fetch the student using the student repository.
It seems that I ought to wire this before the recording, so please make sure to do so.
Here.
I'll say student repository.
Dot find by ID we're going to find the student to this grade belongs to once we don't forget the dot
get.
And once we fetch the students.
We're going to assign it to our grade grade set.
Student, student.
Now the grade right before being saved.
It's referencing a student entity.
How is that going to look?
Well, let's submit a post request again.
We're going to be giving Harry an A-plus.
Beautiful.
So just by looking at the JSON, we see that there is a grade with an ID of one.
The score is A-plus and this grade belongs to the student with an ID of one.
And his name is Harry.
If we go back to our table, let me just copy these statements.
Reconnect.
And that is amazing.
Here we can see that the student with an idea of one Harry Potter, received an A-plus.
Now I'm going to submit four more grades that belong to the student with an idea of one.
So I'm going to give Harry a B-plus.
I'm going to give him a C-plus.
And I'll give him a D-plus.
Going back to the age to console.
Now we've got four grades, and all of them belong to Harry.
Now I'm going to submit three grades for her mini.
So her mini has an ID of three.
We'll give her an A-plus and everything.
So we'll give her one grade two, grade three grades.
And now we've got three grades for her Mini.
Now our grades table has seven grades.
Four of them belong to Harry and three of them belong to her Mini.
I hope that now you can see how the foreign key column creates a link between two tables such that there
is a many to one relationship between many grades and one student.